{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 "World & US History Online." HistoryNet. Accessed February 22, 2018.http://www.historynet.com/.Historynet.com \par
\b0\fs24 Historynet.com is a collection of over five thousand articles from the world\rquote s largest publisher of history magazines in association with the National Historical Society. It also features collections of videos and photos as well as a number of interactive elements. Its interface is clean and simple and includes a search bar that will allow the user to easily look for articles pertaining to whatever particular subject the reader needs to research. The main menu bar for the site has seven main sections, as well as away in which to subscribe to various magazines and a newsletter. The seven sections are \ldblquote Video\rdblquote  (an interface for strictly watching videos), \ldblquote Galleries\rdblquote  (for looking through collections of related photographs), \ldblquote Sections\rdblquote  (which includes the more interactive elements of the site, such as quizzes, but also an audio section, book reviews, and a section called \ldblquote Personalities\rdblquote  which features stories on a wide variety of minor characters in history), \ldblquote Magazines\rdblquote  (which breaks down the information between the various magazines that the articles come from), \ldblquote Topics\rdblquote  (which links to several stories on particular subjects such as \ldblquote Art\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Black History\rdblquote , and \ldblquote Today In History\rdblquote  (which gives a list of historical highlights that happened on today\rquote s date). \par
Overall, the site does slew towards subjects that mostly pertain to U.S. history, at least in its organization. When scrolling through the \ldblquote Topics\rdblquote  menu, the highlighted areas of focus are all about particular eras in U.S. history, such as the U.S. Civil War and U.S. involvement in Vietnam, but there are plenty of articles about historical leaders and battles that took place outside of both the geographical borders of the U.S. as well as its chronological borders.\par
There is an unfortunate number of advertisements in both sidebars as well as interlaced throughout the stories and there is often a historical video that autoplays at the top of any story that the user wants to read and the video often has nothing to do with the article\rquote s subject. There is, however, a very useful section of related articles and interactive tools that is also in thesidebar. This can be helpful in expanding research.\par
There are several different authors of the articles throughout the site. At the end of every article is a brief note about the author, who they are and some of their credentials of note. Many are professors of history at prestigious institutions of learning.\par
I found Historynet.com to be an excellent resource for historical information. The information appears to come from a neutral position, as much as that is possible, written by knowledgeable people, and on a wide variety of subjects.\par
\par
\b\fs22 "UH - Digital History." University of Houston - Digital History. Accessed February 23, 2018.http://www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/.Digitalhistory.uh.edu \b0\par
\fs24 Digitalhistory.uh.edu is a U.S. history-specific website made with the support of the College of Education at the University of Houston. Its main feature is an interactive timeline that allows the user to scroll through U.S. history (including histories of the indigenous people of North America prior to the actual U.S.) right up to the present. Within each subsection of the timeline, there are clickable links to sections titled \ldblquote Media\rdblquote , \ldblquote Documents\rdblquote , \ldblquote Textbook\rdblquote , and \ldblquote Teaching\rdblquote .The \ldblquote Media\rdblquote  section gives the user access to sections featuring music, film, and images from the era. A brief overview of the particular art media of the time is given and then followed by actual examples of what the art was like, including songs, films and photos, when applicable.\par
The \ldblquote Documents\rdblquote  section links the user to several different important writings of the era. The original authors are cited when possible and the date of first publication is given. There are dozens, if not hundreds of articles that the user is given access to for any given era of history.\par
The \ldblquote Textbook\rdblquote  section has a brief overview of the major historical points in the given era, with links to dozens of articles that delve into these historical points even further.\par
The \ldblquote Teaching\rdblquote  section gives the user access to a great number of printable handouts for teaching, reviewing and engaging in critical thought. There are also links to recommended websites that also cover the era in question. There is a section of quizzes as well.\par
Outside of the interactive timeline there is the ability to click on any particular era and then get access to all of the same information that the user can get through the timeline. They can view information through various topics like \ldblquote Advertisements\rdblquote , \ldblquote Controversies\rdblquote , and \ldblquote Political Cartoons\rdblquote  that let the user focus on that subject and then look at it as it changes through the different time periods. \par
The site has a section for their information sources, which gives the user access to other important historical documents, such as court rulings, obituaries and newspaper articles, as wellas a great number of writings written by the people alive at the time. There are also maps, links to museums, historical recreation societies and references.\par
Digitalhistory.uh.edu is an exceptional resource for history. While the author of the main articles is not directly named, the wealth of supporting documents, many written with first-person knowledge of historical events is extremely compelling. The information appears to come from aneutral position, as much as that is possible, written by knowledgeable people, and on a wide variety of subjects."The History Place.\par
\b\fs22 " The History Place. Accessed February 24, 2018.http://www.historyplace.com/.Thehistoryplace.com \b0\par
\fs24 The historyplace.com is an independent website created and maintained by Phillip Gavin, authorof a couple of history books, with entries written by Mr. Gavin as well as some other guest writers. The site is rich with photos and illustrations, with many photo galleries having commentary explaining the framework within the photos take place.\par
Slightly limited in scope, the site focuses on a number of events in U.S. history, such as: World War II, the U.S. Civil War, the American Revolution, 20th Century Topics, the Vietnam War, andAmerican Presidents. There is another section devoted to World War II outside of the U.S. perspective. Finally there\rquote s a World history section that covers the Irish Potato Famine, World War I, 20th Century Genocides, as well as a number of other special topics. \par
Within the sidebar, there\rquote s a number of special features. There\rquote s a photo and quote of the week,as well as a \ldblquote This Month In History\rdblquote  section. There\rquote s a section called Points Of View, which features opinion pieces from a number of guest writers. There\rquote s also a Tourism Guide that has links to historical sites in every state in the U.S., as well as several countries around the world.  There is a history related Frequently Asked Questions section and a section that is set up to help with history homework problems. Films that are supposed to be based on real historical events, as well as dramas that are set in authentic historical eras are reviewed in another section. \ldblquote Personal Histories\rdblquote  has a number of personal writings from six different people during World War II, soldiers and civilians, adults and children, from both the European and Pacific theaters. There are excerpts from several historical books in \ldblquote The Writer\rquote s Corner\rdblquote . Lastly, there\rquote s a section called \ldblquote Something Different\rdblquote  that features some odds and ends that don\rquote t fit into any other spot in the website: photographic slide shows from some historical events, a sing-along Battle Hymn of the Republic, political bloopers and blunders, as well as a \ldblquote Strange But True\rdblquote  section of hard to believe facts.\par
Overall, the historyplace.com is a valuable research site, although it\rquote s not as loaded with as much information as some other sites. While the main author is not a historian by education, he has written a couple books on historical subjects. The site has also earned a number of awards from educator groups for its resources, their accuracy, and its usefulness for research purposes.The information appears to come from a neutral position, as much as that is possible, written by knowledgeable people, and on a wide variety of subjects.\par
\b\fs22 "Biography." Biography.com. Accessed February 25, 2018.https://www.biography.com/.Biography.com \par
\b0\fs24 Biography.com is the website of the popular cable television series and accompanying cable channel, \ldblquote Biography\rdblquote . It has a couple of sections dedicated specifically to history, telling important stories focused on some of the major players of their times. Currently there are two sections of note for historical purposes; \ldblquote History & Culture\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Black History\rdblquote . I am guessing that the \ldblquote Black History\rdblquote  section is a temporary aspect of the main navigation menu, as it is BlackHistory Month as I write this review. \par
The organization of the website does not exactly lend itself to research as there seems to be little rhyme or reason as to why the particular stories that are prominently featured have been highlighted. But there is a very effective search tool that allows the user to find, at the minimum, a brief biography of most every major figure in history. Often there is also an accompanying video that explores the subject of the biography even further. Biographies for historical figures that are connected to the biographical subject are also highlighted. There are also several \par
biographical-adjacent articles that dive a bit deeper into some of the biographical subject\rquote s major projects, or groups with which they are associated. \par
The website has an unfortunate amount of advertising, including ads with sound that play when the mouse hovers over them. Ads are interwoven in between paragraphs of the biographies. There are videos that autoplay, as well. \par
The authors of the biographies are not named, but the reputation of the Biography program is adequate to justify using this site for research purposes, I believe. The sheer number of biographies that are available on this site make it a rather valuable tool for research purposes.\par
\b\fs22 "Lighting A Revolution." Lighting A Revolution: Main Page. Accessed February 25, 2018.http://americanhistory.si.edu/lighting/.Americanhistory.si.edu/lighting\b0\par
\fs24 Americanhistory.si.edu/lighting is an online companion for an exhibition focused on invention and inventors from the Smithsonian\rquote s National Museum of American History. The title of the companion is, \ldblquote Lighting A Revolution.\rdblquote  \par
There are three menu options from the main loading page, \ldblquote Invention Factory: 19th Century Electric Lamps\rdblquote , \ldblquote Invention Factory: 20th Century Electric Lamps\rdblquote , and \ldblquote Guest Lounge & Library\rdblquote . There are five steps that are outlined as the process of invention: \ldblquote Preconditions\rdblquote , \ldblquote Invention\rdblquote , \ldblquote Promotion\rdblquote , \ldblquote Competition\rdblquote , and \ldblquote Consequences\rdblquote  and the user is told that the \ldblquote Invention Factory\rdblquote  options above will take the user through those five steps.\par
For the \ldblquote 19th Century Electric Lamps\rdblquote  section under the \ldblquote Preconditions\rdblquote  the user is shown the various inventions that existed prior to Edison\rquote s work on his electric light bulb that influenced and allowed him to move forward with his work. Under the \ldblquote Invention\rdblquote  section, the user learns about Thomas Edison himself and his life up to he invention of the light bulb, including his building of Menlo Park and about the top assistants that he had working under him at the time. The invention of the light bulb itself it also detailed. \ldblquote Promotion\rdblquote  explains some of the elaborate means by which Edison showed his new invention to the world. The \ldblquote Competition\rdblquote  section gives the user information on other popular forms of lighting that were available at the time, plus goes into some detail about the battle of Edison\rquote s preferred direct current versus alternating current. And then \ldblquote Consequences\rdblquote  tells of some of the immediate aftermath that the invention of the electric light bulb had upon the world.\par
In the \ldblquote 20th Century Electric Lamps\rdblquote  section under the \ldblquote Preconditions\rdblquote  section, the user is taught about the experiments into brighter and more efficient lams, as well as the studies that could then be done on human vision as having a constant source of light allowed for more focused study on the nature of light. \ldblquote Invention\rdblquote  details six different experimental lighting optionsthat have been pursued throughout the century, and \ldblquote Promotion\rdblquote  shows the user various methods by which these alternate lighting options were attempted to be sold to the public, somewith positive results and others far more negative. \ldblquote Competition\rdblquote  is all about how various companies would try to ape the successes of other companies in the lighting industry. The effect that modern lighting has had on the public, especially increased safety, as well as the global crisis of energy conservation are explained to the user in the section \ldblquote Consequences.\par
The \ldblquote Guest Lounge & Library\rdblquote  section from the main menu is chock full of data on how the various types of lighting work, as well as how they are used throughout U.S. history.\par
This site has a great deal of information about a very narrow, but important subject. It has an extensive bibliography as well as plenty of historical images that illustrate the times in which the incandescent light bulb came into existence. I believe that it is a great resource for research on the subject.\par
}
 